The GrapheneOS IRC Channel Rules
================================
Last updated August 2nd, 2020 21:40UTC
 
Hello and welcome to the GrapheneOS IRC channel, which is bridged to Matrix. We
try to be welcoming and flexible in this channel and have as much of an "honour
system" as we can here, so please don't abuse it. Please read the following in
full: 
 
1. Rule Zero or the "Don't be a dick" rule applies. Please don't engage in
harassment, spamming, trolling, trying to inflame the channel, impersonating
developers or moderators, or spreading misinformation.
 
2. Please read the FAQ at https://grapheneos.org/faq in its entirety prior to
posting.
 
3. Please don't engage in bikeshedding. Bikeshedding is the act of fussing
around trivialities that soak up mental bandwidth and divert resources away from
handling bigger and more important problems. This includes certain topics such
as:
    A) Discussion of service providers or asking whether a certain app, service
provider, or protocol that doesn't come with GrapheneOS is trustworthy. Services
such as mail, messaging, and cloud storage services, are outside of GrapheneOS'
control and aren't on-topic here. 
    B) Discussion on other operating systems that aren't GrapheneOS outside of
the context of either building or installing GrapheneOS. (If you're looking for
an operating system to install from, please see the official installation guide
at https://grapheneos.org/install.)
    C) Speculation or discussion on politics, such as comparing privacy laws in
different jurisdictions. This is again, outside of GrapheneOS' control.
    D) Fantasizing about hypothetical worst-case scenarios like backdoors,
nationstate adversaries, intelligence agencies, and their capabilities, or
"GrapheneOS versus Three Letter Agency" speculation. It's unfortunate but this
type of discussion just ends up being GrapheneOS versus your imagination. Code
has limits, your imagination doesn't, and it's not useful to try to threat model
against an adversary whose capabilities are hypothetical and unlimited.
    E) Discussion about software licenses. The licenses in GrapheneOS were
chosen very deliberately to comply with future goals and aspirations of the
project.
The reason these topics are on this list due to past experience, where they
always end up descending into playing "mine is [bigger/more paranoid/more
private/more technical/more libre] than yours" which is extremely toxic and
contributes to communities exhibiting cult-like behaviour. We don't want
#GrapheneOS to turn into a privacy cult or a circlejerk, so these topics are
currently embargoed.
 
With all that said, enjoy your stay and welcome to #GrapheneOS!
